# FoulkesGen

As a research assistant in the Foulkes Lab, I independently wrote an R package that retrieved data from multiple independent human genetics databases hosted at different web access points, selected only the data that was relevant to our studies, and formatted it in the way that matched the scripts we used for the statistical analysis in order to increase our efficiency. However, I no longer have access to the package that I wrote, so I was unable to include it. Instead, I have included a code sample that I was formatting the data for, and which I edited from a previous author to run on new data and for different predictors and variables. Essentially, our goal was to create a type of variable selection tool to select the genetic predictors (SNPs) for different adverse health affects, but rather than looking at the genes as individual predictors, we were interested in the interaction affects between multiple genes. In other words, are there groups of genes that are near each other on the chromosome that together affect a phenotype very significantly, but each alone would not be detected in a statistical significance test? Another change we made to this model from the previous author was that we went from looking at rare adverse affects to more generalized negative health affects, like kidney toxin levels, which are often more difficult to find genetic indicators for as there are so many possible confounding SNPs and so many different SNP combinations that could have the same significant result on an adverse health trait or risk. I was not able to include my code for this project because the data is confidential so I included this tutorial sample to give an idea of the type of scripts I was working on. I worked with one other research assistant on the statistical analysis part of the project and we contributed equally. I have included a screen shot of a Manhattan plot that was the main data visualization used in our analysis.
